So let's go ahead and discuss
some data preparation concepts.
If you've ever had your own garden
or shopped from a local farmers market
you know that the vegetables there are sometimes dirty.
Right?
They came straight from the ground.
Now, before we consume it
and make it into a delicious casserole
we need to clean it, remove all the dirt and sanitize it.
We could think about this same process as what we need
to do to our data before we feed it
into our machine learning model.
The reason that we do this
is because machine learning algorithms like numbers,
they like math.
And since a lot of our data is text based,
sometimes we need to convert those to numbers.
Sometimes we need to handle values that are missing.
And sometimes we need to find
inaccuracies or outliers upfront
so our machine learning models can make
the correct predictions with the data that we give it.
So if we take a look at our machine learning cycle
we know that we are trying to clean and prepare our data
but before we can do that
we first need to understand our data.
Once we understand our data
we can start to use different techniques
that help us transform it or prepare it
so our machine learning model can
make proper predictions with it.
It can take the values of the data set
apply it to whatever algorithm the model is using
and output the correct results.
Now the concept of data preparation is just simply put:
It's changing our data set
so it's ready for our machine learning problem.
Now this can come in many different formats
and we can use many different techniques
but essentially what we're trying to do is, do things like
remove incomplete and incorrectly formatted values,
irrelevant data and remove duplicate data.
Sometimes we need to change text based values
into numeric values, group different attributes together,
combine different attributes, take text strings
and break them into different tokens
and redesign features in general.
Now not all of these techniques are going to be relevant
for every data set, but depending on the problem on hand
and the machine learning algorithm you're using
you could pick and choose different techniques to use
to prepare your data.
What this does is it ensures that the relevant features
are used for the problem at hand.
And just know that the data preparation process
is usually the most time consuming part of machine learning.
The reason that this is true is because if we feed
a machine learning algorithm unprepared data,
then the model that it creates is going to be useless.
It's not going to solve any problems.
We need to feed it good data so it can produce good results.
Over the next few lectures I will discuss
a few different techniques and processes
that we can use to prepare our data.
Now these aren't the only techniques to use
but they're some of the most important ones
that we use in machine learning.
We'll start off by talking about categorical encoding.
And this is just
changing text based values into numeric values.
We'll next talk about feature engineering
which is essentially just transforming our features
so they're relevant for the problem at hand.
And finally we'll talk about different techniques to use
to handle missing values within our data set.
So for example let's take this data set
with some Star Wars' character names
and some attributes about those characters.
Now the features of this data set are
Name, Evil, and the Affiliation.
Some of the first things that I notice with this data set
is that the formatting is off for a couple of our attributes
right, we know that in the evil column
we want a one or a zero,
so values like 'No' we would need to change.
We can also see in the affiliation column
that we're looking for either rebels or empire.
So the value REB will need to be mapped to rebels.
Next we see we have a few missing values as well
so we'll need to take care of those
and we'll talk about some different techniques
to use to handle missing values.
Next, we also see some duplicate values.
Depending on the problem at hand,
duplicate values could skew results.
So we may want to think about removing these.
And again in the affiliation column we see bounty hunter,
and we're only looking for Rebels or Empire so we'll need to
figure out another way to handle that observation.
So we're ready to choose our machine learning algorithm
and we go ahead and choose one but we find out
that the affiliation column needs to be encoded.
This means that the machine learning algorithm
doesn't accept text based values or categorical values
as the target attribute affiliation.
So we will need to encode these values into a zero or one
or numeric values.
Now this is just a simple example of a few different
techniques and ways that we can start thinking about
transforming or preparing our data.
So in summary, what we are trying to do is take data
that's unprepared or dirty
and transform it to something that is actually useful,
something that we can actually consume within our model.
You might be asking questions like,
" okay, well I understand that we need
to transform our data, I know we need to clean it up.
but how do we actually do this?"
Well luckily there's a few different tools
within AWS, that help us transform our data
and get it ready for our machine learning model.
A couple of tools that we can use
in the machine learning suite are
SageMaker and Jupyter Notebooks as well as AWS Glue
which we've already mentioned is an ETL tool.
We can think about transforming our data
in more of an ad-hoc way using Jupyter Notebooks
and then with AWS Glue we can think about creating
long standing transformation jobs
that we can run over and over to prepare our data.
So if you have any questions that come up on the exam
that have to do with data transformation or ETL jobs,
just think of AWS Glue.
All right,
so that's the end of the concepts of data preparation.
If you have any questions about anything I've discussed
then please post in the course forum
if not, then join me in the next lecture.